name:obsolete oxidoreductase activity, acting on diphenols and related substances as donors, cytochrome as acceptor , definition:OBSOLETE. Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a diphenol, or related compound, acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a cytochrome.
name:cytokine receptor binding , definition:Binding to a cytokine receptor.
name:transcription factor binding , definition:Binding to a transcription factor, a protein required to initiate or regulate transcription.
name:chlorophyll binding , definition:Binding to a chlorophyll; a compound of magnesium complexed in a porphyrin (tetrapyrrole) ring and which functions as a photosynthetic pigment.
name:translation regulator activity , definition:Any molecular function involved in the initiation, activation, perpetuation, repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome.
name:RNA exonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' or 3' terminus of an RNA molecule.
name:DNA topoisomerase type II (double strand cut, ATP-hydrolyzing) activity , definition:Catalysis of a DNA topological transformation by transiently cleaving a pair of complementary DNA strands to form a gate through which a second double-stranded DNA segment is passed, after which the severed strands in the first DNA segment are rejoined, driven by ATP hydrolysis. The enzyme changes the linking number in multiples of 2.
name:peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: peptidyl-proline (omega=180) = peptidyl-proline (omega=0).
name:RNA nuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of RNA.
name:adenyl ribonucleotide binding , definition:Binding to an adenyl ribonucleotide, any compound consisting of adenosine esterified with (ortho)phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety.
name:obsolete drug binding , definition:OBSOLETE. Binding to a drug, a naturally occurring or synthetic substance, other than a nutrient, that, when administered or applied to an organism, affects the structure or functioning of the organism;typically used in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of disease.
name:rRNA binding , definition:Binding to a ribosomal RNA.
name:protein transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a protein from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:carbon-nitrogen ligase activity, with glutamine as amido-N-donor , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of the amide nitrogen of glutamine to a substrate. Usually composed of two subunits or domains, one that first hydrolyzes glutamine, and then transfers the resulting ammonia to the second subunit (or domain), where it acts as a source of nitrogen.
name:endonuclease activity, active with either ribo- or deoxyribonucleic acids and producing 5'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5'-phosphomonoesters.
name:nickel cation binding , definition:Binding to a nickel (Ni) cation.
name:alcohol binding , definition:Binding to an alcohol, any of a class of alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group.
name:glutathione transferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: R-X + glutathione = H-X + R-S-glutathione. R may be an aliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic group; X may be a sulfate, nitrile or halide group.
name:carboxypeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single C-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain.
name:antigen binding , definition:Binding to an antigen, any substance which is capable of inducing a specific immune response and of reacting with the products of that response, the specific antibody or specifically sensitized T-lymphocytes, or both. Binding may counteract the biological activity of the antigen. Antigen binding by an MHC protein complex allows the antigen to be displayed to a T cell or NK cell.
name:beta-glucosidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal, non-reducing beta-D-glucose residues with release of beta-D-glucose.
name:maltose binding , definition:Binding to maltose.
name:transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a substance, usually a specific substance or a group of related substances, from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:oxygen binding , definition:Binding to oxygen (O2).
name:enzyme regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of an enzyme.
name:transcription corepressor activity , definition:A transcription coregulator activity that represses or decreases the transcription of specific gene sets via binding to a DNA-binding transcription factor at a specific genomic locus, either on its own or as part of a complex. Corepressors often act by altering chromatin structure and modifications. For example, one class of transcription corepressors modifies chromatin structure through covalent modification of histones. A second class remodels the conformation of chromatin in an ATP-dependent fashion. A third class modulates interactions of DNA-bound DNA-binding transcription factors with other transcription coregulators.
name:peroxiredoxin activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: [protein]-dithol + ROOH = [protein]-disulfide + H2O + ROH.
name:penicillin binding , definition:Binding to penicillin, an antibiotic that contains the condensed beta-lactamthiazolidine ring system.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H, quinone or similar compound as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which NADH or NADPH acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a quinone or a similar acceptor molecule.
name:DNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a 2'-deoxyribonucleoside 5'-triphosphate + DNA(n) = diphosphate + DNA(n+1).
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on CH-OH group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-OH group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:histone methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: S-adenosyl-L-methionine + histone = S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + methyl-histone. Histone methylation generally occurs on either an arginine or a lysine residue.
name:lipid binding , definition:Binding to a lipid.
name:protease binding , definition:Binding to a protease or a peptidase.
name:chemokine receptor binding , definition:Binding to a chemokine receptor.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:serine-type peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine).
name:intramolecular oxidoreductase activity, interconverting aldoses and ketoses , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor, which is an aldose or a ketose, are the same molecule, and no oxidized product appears.
name:DNA-binding transcription factor activity , definition:A transcription regulator activity that modulates transcription of gene sets via selective and non-covalent binding to a specific double-stranded genomic DNA sequence (sometimes referred to as a motif) within a cis-regulatory region. Regulatory regions include promoters (proximal and distal) and enhancers. Genes are transcriptional units, and include bacterial operons.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on NAD(P)H , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which NADH or NADPH acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:carboxyl- or carbamoyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a carboxyl- or carbamoyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:DNA endonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks.
name:kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a substrate molecule.
name:carbohydrate transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of carbohydrate from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:RNA glycosylase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of N-glycosidic bonds in an RNA molecule.
name:protein tyrosine kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + a protein tyrosine = ADP + protein tyrosine phosphate.
name:transferase activity, transferring nitrogenous groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a nitrogenous group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:serine hydrolase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a substrate by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine).
name:proton transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a proton from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen, NAD(P)H as one donor, and incorporation of one atom of oxygen , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from NADH or NADPH and one other donor, and one atom of oxygen is incorporated into one donor.
name:cobalt ion binding , definition:Binding to a cobalt ion (Co2+).
name:transaminase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an amino group to an acceptor, usually a 2-oxo acid.
name:carboxylic ester hydrolase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a carboxylic ester bond.
name:protein domain specific binding , definition:Binding to a specific domain of a protein.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-NH2 group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-NH2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:aminoacyl-tRNA ligase activity , definition:Catalysis of the formation of aminoacyl-tRNA from ATP, amino acid, and tRNA with the release of diphosphate and AMP.
name:extracellular ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific extracellular ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of C-C, C-O, C-N and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation, or conversely adding a group to a double bond. They differ from other enzymes in that two substrates are involved in one reaction direction, but only one in the other direction. When acting on the single substrate, a molecule is eliminated and this generates either a new double bond or a new ring.
name:endonuclease activity, active with either ribo- or deoxyribonucleic acids and producing 3'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 3'-phosphomonoesters.
name:deaminase activity , definition:Catalysis of the removal of an amino group from a substrate, producing a substituted or nonsubstituted ammonia (NH3/NH2R).
name:wide pore channel activity , definition:Enables the energy-independent facilitated diffusion of propanediol through a large pore, un-gated channel. Examples include gap junctions, which transport substances from one cell to another; and porins which transport substances in and out of bacteria, mitochondria and chloroplasts.
name:sulfur compound binding , definition:Binding to a sulfur compound.
name:molecular function regulator activity , definition:A molecular function regulator regulates the activity of its target via non-covalent binding that does not result in covalent modification to the target. Examples of molecular function regulators include regulatory subunits of multimeric enzymes and channels. Mechanisms of regulation include allosteric changes in the target and competitive inhibition.
name:chemokine activity , definition:The function of a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.
name:RNA polymerase binding , definition:Binding to an RNA polymerase molecule or complex.
name:threonine-type peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the hydroxyl group of a threonine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:potassium ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of potassium ions (K+) from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:monosaccharide binding , definition:Binding to a monosaccharide. Monosaccharides are the simplest carbohydrates; they are polyhydroxy aldehydes H[CH(OH)]nC(=O)H or polyhydroxy ketones H[CHOH]nC(=O)[CHOH]mH with three or more carbon atoms. They form the constitutional repeating units of oligo- and polysaccharides.
name:N-acetyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule.
name:host cell surface binding , definition:Binding to the surface of a host cell.
name:phosphotransferase activity, carboxyl group as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus-containing group from one compound (donor) to a carboxyl group (acceptor).
name:omega peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of non-standard peptide bonds releasing substituted amino acids such as pyroglutamate or cleave isopeptide bonds, such as many deubiquitinating enzymes.
name:N-methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the nitrogen atom of an acceptor molecule.
name:microtubule binding , definition:Binding to a microtubule, a filament composed of tubulin monomers.
name:acyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:racemase and epimerase activity, acting on carbohydrates and derivatives , definition:Catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a carbohydrate molecule.
name:translation factor activity, RNA binding , definition:Functions during translation by binding to RNA during polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome.
name:serine-type carboxypeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single C-terminal amino acid residue from the C-terminus of a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine).
name:DNA nuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid.
name:metalloexopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the N- or C-terminus of a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which water acts as a nucleophile, one or two metal ions hold the water molecule in place, and charged amino acid side chains are ligands for the metal ions.
name:deubiquitinase activity , definition:An isopeptidase activity that cleaves ubiquitin from a target protein to which it is conjugated.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on acid phosphorus-nitrogen bonds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid phosphorus-nitrogen bond.
name:protein-macromolecule adaptor activity , definition:An adaptor activity that brings together two or more macromolecules in contact, permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way. The adaptor can bring together two proteins, or a protein and another macromolecule such as a lipid or a nucleic acid.
name:aminopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single N-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain.
name:protein serine/threonine phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: protein serine phosphate + H2O = protein serine + phosphate, and protein threonine phosphate + H2O = protein threonine + phosphate.
name:organic acid binding , definition:Binding to an organic acid, any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage.
name:carbohydrate kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a carbohydrate substrate molecule.
name:lipid transporter activity , definition:Enables the directed movement of lipids into, out of or within a cell, or between cells.
name:purine nucleotide binding , definition:Binding to a purine nucleotide, a compound consisting of a purine nucleoside esterified with (ortho)phosphate.
name:phosphotransferase activity, nitrogenous group as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus-containing group from one compound (donor) to a nitrogenous group (acceptor).
name:vitamin binding , definition:Binding to a vitamin, one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body.
name:threonine-type endopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the hydroxyl group of a threonine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:modified amino acid binding , definition:Binding to a modified amino acid.
name:galactosidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of galactosyl compounds, substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of galactose or a galactose derivative.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in linear amidines , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non-peptide carbon-nitrogen bond in a linear amidine, a compound of the form R-C(=NH)-NH2.
name:4 iron, 4 sulfur cluster binding , definition:Binding to a 4 iron, 4 sulfur (4Fe-4S) cluster; this cluster consists of four iron atoms, with the inorganic sulfur atoms found between the irons and acting as bridging ligands.
name:voltage-gated potassium channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a potassium ion by a voltage-gated channel. A voltage-gated channel is a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded.
name:disaccharide binding , definition:Binding to a disaccharide. Disaccharides are sugars composed of two monosaccharide units.
name:ATP binding , definition:Binding to ATP, adenosine 5'-triphosphate, a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator.
name:cellulase activity , definition:Catalysis of the endohydrolysis of (1->4)-beta-D-glucosidic linkages in cellulose, lichenin and cereal beta-D-glucans.
name:racemase and epimerase activity, acting on amino acids and derivatives , definition:Catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in an amino acid.
name:phosphoric diester hydrolase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a phosphodiester to give a phosphomonoester and a free hydroxyl group.
name:molecular adaptor activity , definition:The binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective, non-covalent, often stoichiometric interaction, permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way.
name:isoprenoid binding , definition:Binding to an isoprenoid compound, isoprene (2-methylbuta-1,3-diene) or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene (3-methyl-2-butenylene) residues.
name:actin filament binding , definition:Binding to an actin filament, also known as F-actin, a helical filamentous polymer of globular G-actin subunits.
name:ferrous iron binding , definition:Binding to a ferrous iron ion, Fe(II).
name:acyltransferase activity, acyl groups converted into alkyl on transfer , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor), with the acyl group being converted into alkyl on transfer.
name:electron transfer activity , definition:A molecular function representing the directed movement of electrons from one molecular entity to another, typically mediated by electron carriers or acceptors, resulting in the transfer of energy and/or the reduction-oxidation (redox) transformation of chemical species. This activity is fundamental to various biological processes, including cellular respiration and photosynthesis, as well as numerous enzymatic reactions involved in metabolic pathways.
name:obsolete translation regulator activity, nucleic acid binding , definition:OBSOLETE. Any selective and non-covalent interaction with a nucleic acid involved in the initiation, activation, perpetuation, repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome.
name:ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductase activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: CoQH2 + 2 ferricytochrome c = CoQ + 2 ferrocytochrome c + 2 H+.
name:fatty acid synthase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: acetyl-CoA + n malonyl-CoA + 2n NADPH + 2n H+ = long-chain fatty acid + n+1 CoA + n CO2 + 2n NADP+.
name:snRNA binding , definition:Binding to a small nuclear RNA (snRNA).
name:protein transporter activity , definition:Directly binding to a specific protein and delivering it to a specific cellular location.
name:superoxide dismutase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide + 2 H+ = O2 + hydrogen peroxide.
name:purine ribonucleoside triphosphate binding , definition:Binding to a purine ribonucleoside triphosphate, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar.
name:transferase activity, transferring alkyl or aryl (other than methyl) groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an alkyl or aryl (but not methyl) group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on diphenols and related substances as donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a diphenol or related substance acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:exopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the N- or C-terminus of a polypeptide chain, in a reaction that requires a free N-terminal amino group, C-terminal carboxyl group or both.
name:inorganic anion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of inorganic anions from one side of a membrane to the other. Inorganic anions are atoms or small molecules with a negative charge which do not contain carbon in covalent linkage.
name:cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase.
name:protein-folding chaperone binding , definition:Binding to a chaperone protein, a class of proteins that bind to nascent or unfolded polypeptides and ensure correct folding or transport.
name:hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing O-glycosyl compounds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any O-glycosyl bond.
name:signaling receptor activity , definition:Receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity. A signal is a physical entity or change in state that is used to transfer information in order to trigger a response.
name:oxygen carrier activity , definition:Binding to oxygen and delivering it to an acceptor molecule or a specific location.
name:catalytic activity, acting on DNA , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify DNA.
name:obsolete histone lysine N-methyltransferase activity , definition:OBSOLETE. Catalysis of the reaction: S-adenosyl-L-methionine + histone L-lysine = S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine + histone N6-methyl-L-lysine. The methylation of peptidyl-lysine in histones forms N6-methyl-L-lysine, N6,N6-dimethyl-L-lysine and N6,N6,N6-trimethyl-L-lysine derivatives.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on superoxide radicals as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a superoxide radical (O2- or O2.-) acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:cysteine-type peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:carboxylic acid binding , definition:Binding to a carboxylic acid, an organic acid containing one or more carboxyl (COOH) groups or anions (COO-).
name:cyclic-nucleotide phosphodiesterase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside cyclic phosphate + H2O = a nucleoside phosphate.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on glycosyl bonds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on iron-sulfur proteins as donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which an iron-sulfur protein acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:amide transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of an amide, any compound containing one, two, or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom, from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:protein kinase regulator activity , definition:Modulates the activity of a protein kinase, an enzyme which phosphorylates a protein.
name:cysteine-type endopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:calcium ion binding , definition:Binding to a calcium ion (Ca2+).
name:flavin adenine dinucleotide binding , definition:Binding to FAD, flavin-adenine dinucleotide, the coenzyme or the prosthetic group of various flavoprotein oxidoreductase enzymes, in either the oxidized form, FAD, or the reduced form, FADH2.
name:pyrophosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond (diphosphate bond) between two phosphate groups.
name:nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + nucleoside diphosphate = ADP + nucleoside triphosphate.
name:ubiquitin protein ligase binding , definition:Binding to a ubiquitin protein ligase enzyme, any of the E3 proteins.
name:5'-3' RNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate + RNA(n) = diphosphate + RNA(n+1); the synthesis of RNA from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template, via extension of the 3'-end.
name:RNA polymerase II-specific DNA-binding transcription factor binding , definition:Binding to a sequence-specific DNA binding RNA polymerase II transcription factor, any of the factors that interact selectively and non-covalently with a specific DNA sequence in order to modulate transcription.
name:guanyl nucleotide binding , definition:Binding to a guanyl nucleotide, consisting of guanosine esterified with (ortho)phosphate.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen, incorporation of two atoms of oxygen , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor, and two oxygen atoms is incorporated into a donor.
name:histone binding , definition:Binding to a histone, any of a group of water-soluble proteins found in association with the DNA of eukaryotic or archaeal chromosomes. They are involved in the condensation and coiling of chromosomes during cell division and have also been implicated in gene regulation and DNA replication. They may be chemically modified (methylated, acetlyated and others) to regulate gene transcription.
name:polysaccharide binding , definition:Binding to a polysaccharide, a polymer of many (typically more than 10) monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically.
name:protein tyrosine/serine/threonine phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reactions: protein serine + H2O = protein serine + phosphate; protein threonine phosphate + H2O = protein threonine + phosphate; and protein tyrosine phosphate + H2O = protein tyrosine + phosphate.
name:histone acetyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: acetyl-CoA + histone = CoA + acetyl-histone.
name:purine ribonucleoside binding , definition:Binding to a purine ribonucleoside, a compound consisting of a purine base linked to ribose.
name:obsolete heme-copper terminal oxidase activity , definition:OBSOLETE. Catalysis of the four-electron reduction of dioxygen (O2) to water, coupled to generation of a proton electrochemical gradient across a membrane.
name:large ribosomal subunit rRNA binding , definition:Binding to large ribosomal subunit RNA (LSU rRNA), a constituent of the large ribosomal subunit. In S. cerevisiae, this is the 25S rRNA.
name:ribosome binding , definition:Binding to a ribosome.
name:double-stranded DNA binding , definition:Binding to double-stranded DNA.
name:helicase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + phosphate, to drive the unwinding of a DNA or RNA helix.
name:small GTPase binding , definition:Binding to a small monomeric GTPase.
name:protein kinase binding , definition:Binding to a protein kinase, any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a protein substrate.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on acid anhydrides , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride.
name:nuclear steroid receptor activity , definition:A nuclear receptor activity regulated by steroid binding and modulating the transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by RNA polymerase II.
name:enzyme activator activity , definition:Binds to and increases the activity of an enzyme.
name:nuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids.
name:methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule.
name:guanyl-nucleotide exchange factor activity , definition:Stimulates the exchange of GDP to GTP on a signaling GTPase, changing its conformation to its active form. Guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) act by stimulating the release of guanosine diphosphate (GDP) to allow binding of guanosine triphosphate (GTP), which is more abundant in the cell under normal cellular physiological conditions.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:enzyme inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of an enzyme.
name:fatty acid binding , definition:Binding to a fatty acid, an aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis.
name:xylanase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of xylans, homopolysaccharides composed of xylose residues.
name:ligase activity, forming carbon-sulfur bonds , definition:Catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon-sulfur bond, with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in ATP or a similar triphosphate.
name:glucosidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of glucosyl compounds, substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of glucose or a glucose derivative.
name:molecular carrier activity , definition:Directly binding to a specific ion or molecule and delivering it either to an acceptor molecule or to a specific location.
name:G protein-coupled receptor binding , definition:Binding to a G protein-coupled receptor.
name:protein homodimerization activity , definition:Binding to an identical protein to form a homodimer.
name:tubulin binding , definition:Binding to monomeric or multimeric forms of tubulin, including microtubules.
name:molecular transducer activity , definition:A compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components.
name:phospholipase A2 activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a 1,2-diacyl-sn-glycero-3-phospholipid + H2O = 1-acyl-sn-glycero-3-phospholipid + a fatty acid. This reaction removes the fatty acid attached to the sn2-position. Substrates include phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, choline plasmalogen and phosphatides.
name:DNA-binding transcription factor activity, RNA polymerase II-specific , definition:A DNA-binding transcription factor activity that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets transcribed by RNA polymerase II.
name:ubiquitin-like protein transferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin-like from one protein to another via the reaction X-ULP + Y = Y-ULP + X, where both X-ULP and Y-ULP are covalent linkages. ULP represents a ubiquitin-like protein.
name:guanyl ribonucleotide binding , definition:Binding to a guanyl ribonucleotide, any compound consisting of guanosine esterified with (ortho)phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety.
name:host cell surface receptor binding , definition:Binding to a receptor on the host cell surface.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone (oxo) group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:hormone binding , definition:Binding to an hormone, a naturally occurring substance secreted by specialized cells that affect the metabolism or behavior of cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone. Hormones may be produced by the same, or different, cell as express the receptor.
name:growth factor receptor binding , definition:Binding to a growth factor receptor.
name:ligand-gated monoatomic cation channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of an inorganic cation by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:protein methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group (CH3-) to a protein.
name:N-acyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule.
name:amino-acid racemase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: an L-amino acid = a D-amino acid.
name:transcription regulator activity , definition:A molecular function that controls the rate, timing and/or magnitude of gene transcription. The function of transcriptional regulators is to modulate gene expression at the transcription step so that they are expressed in the right cell at the right time and in the right amount throughout the life of the cell and the organism. Genes are transcriptional units, and include bacterial operons.
name:GTPase activator activity , definition:Binds to and increases the activity of a GTPase, an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of GTP.
name:unfolded protein binding , definition:Binding to an unfolded protein.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a sulfur-containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:single-stranded DNA binding , definition:Binding to single-stranded DNA.
name:chitin binding , definition:Binding to chitin, a linear polysaccharide consisting of beta-(1->4)-linked N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues.
name:carbohydrate binding , definition:Binding to a carbohydrate, which includes monosaccharides, oligosaccharides and polysaccharides as well as substances derived from monosaccharides by reduction of the carbonyl group (alditols), by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes, ketones, or carboxylic acids, or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group(s) by a hydrogen atom. Cyclitols are generally not regarded as carbohydrates.
name:peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond. A peptide bond is a covalent bond formed when the carbon atom from the carboxyl group of one amino acid shares electrons with the nitrogen atom from the amino group of a second amino acid.
name:transmembrane transporter binding , definition:Binding to a transmembrane transporter, a protein or protein complex that enables the transfer of a substance, usually a specific substance or a group of related substances, from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:translation initiation factor binding , definition:Binding to a translation initiation factor, any polypeptide factor involved in the initiation of ribosome-mediated translation.
name:ligase activity, forming carbon-nitrogen bonds , definition:Catalysis of the joining of two molecules, or two groups within a single molecule, via a carbon-nitrogen bond, with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in ATP or a similar triphosphate.
name:protein N-acetyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the acetylation of an amino acid residue of a peptide or protein, according to the reaction: acetyl-CoA + peptide = CoA + N-acetylpeptide.
name:transmembrane signaling receptor activity , definition:Combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction.
name:phosphatase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a phosphatase, an enzyme which catalyzes of the removal of a phosphate group from a substrate molecule.
name:transition metal ion binding , definition:Binding to a transition metal ions; a transition metal is an element whose atom has an incomplete d-subshell of extranuclear electrons, or which gives rise to a cation or cations with an incomplete d-subshell. Transition metals often have more than one valency state. Biologically relevant transition metals include vanadium, manganese, iron, copper, cobalt, nickel, molybdenum and silver.
name:3'-5' exonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' end.
name:peptidoglycan muralytic activity , definition:A catalytic activity that contributes to the degradation of peptidoglycan.
name:intramolecular phosphotransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group from one position to another within a single molecule.
name:nucleobase-containing compound kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP or GTP, to a nucleobase, nucleoside, nucleotide or polynucleotide substrate.
name:carbonate dehydratase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: hydrogencarbonate + H+ = CO2 + H2O.
name:acyltransferase activity, transferring groups other than amino-acyl groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group, other than amino-acyl, from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:hydroxymethyl-, formyl- and related transferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a hydroxymethyl- or formyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:endonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks.
name:transcription coregulator activity , definition:A transcription regulator activity that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets via binding to a DNA-binding transcription factor at a specific genomic locus, either on its own or as part of a complex. Coregulators often act by altering chromatin structure and modifications. For example, one class of transcription coregulators modifies chromatin structure through covalent modification of histones. A second class remodels the conformation of chromatin in an ATP-dependent fashion. A third class modulates interactions of DNA-bound DNA-binding transcription factors with other transcription coregulators.
name:monoatomic ion channel activity , definition:Enables the facilitated diffusion of a monoatomic ion (by an energy-independent process) by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier-mediated mechanism. May be either selective (it enables passage of a specific ion only) or non-selective (it enables passage of two or more ions of same charge but different size).
name:RNA endonuclease activity, producing 5'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5'-phosphomonoesters.
name:DNA-directed DNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate + DNA(n) = diphosphate + DNA(n+1); DNA-template-directed extension of the 3'-end of a DNA strand by one nucleotide at a time.
name:acid-amino acid ligase activity , definition:Catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon-nitrogen bond, with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in ATP or a similar triphosphate.
name:calcium channel activity , definition:Enables the energy-independent facilitated diffusion of a calcium ion through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel.
name:structural molecule activity , definition:The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex.
name:DNA helicase activity , definition:Unwinding of a DNA helix, driven by ATP hydrolysis.
name:kinase binding , definition:Binding to a kinase, any enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a phosphate group.
name:active transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from one side of a membrane to the other, up the solute's concentration gradient. The transporter binds the solute and undergoes a series of conformational changes. Transport works equally well in either direction.
name:phosphorus-oxygen lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of a phosphorus-oxygen bond by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation, or conversely adding a group to a double bond.
name:cadherin binding , definition:Binding to cadherin, a type I membrane protein involved in cell adhesion.
name:carbon-sulfur lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the elimination of hydrogen sulfide or substituted H2S.
name:sodium channel regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a sodium channel.
name:GTP binding , definition:Binding to GTP, guanosine triphosphate.
name:proton channel activity , definition:Enables the facilitated diffusion of a hydrogen ion (by an energy-independent process) involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier-mediated mechanism.
name:cytokine activity , definition:The activity of a soluble extracellular gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor to control the survival, growth, differentiation and effector function of tissues and cells.
name:oxo-acid-lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of a C-C bond by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation, of a 3-hydroxy acid.
name:obsolete oxidoreductase activity, acting on a heme group of donors, oxygen as acceptor , definition:OBSOLETE. Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen.
name:glycosaminoglycan binding , definition:Binding to a glycan (polysaccharide) containing a substantial proportion of aminomonosaccharide residues.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on paired donors, with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from each of two donors, and molecular oxygen is reduced or incorporated into a donor.
name:cell adhesion molecule binding , definition:Binding to a cell adhesion molecule.
name:antioxidant activity , definition:Inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen (O2) or peroxides. Usually the antioxidant is effective because it can itself be more easily oxidized than the substance protected. The term is often applied to components that can trap free radicals, thereby breaking the chain reaction that normally leads to extensive biological damage.
name:passive transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a single solute from one side of a membrane to the other by a mechanism involving conformational change, either by facilitated diffusion or in a membrane potential dependent process if the solute is charged.
name:sodium channel inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents, or reduces the activity of a sodium channel.
name:S-adenosylmethionine-dependent methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to a substrate.
name:GTPase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: GTP + H2O = GDP + H+ + phosphate.
name:sequence-specific double-stranded DNA binding , definition:Binding to double-stranded DNA of a specific nucleotide composition, e.g. GC-rich DNA binding, or with a specific sequence motif or type of DNA, e.g. promotor binding or rDNA binding.
name:carbon-oxygen lyase activity, acting on phosphates , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon-oxygen bond by elimination of a phosphate.
name:potassium channel activity , definition:Enables the energy-independent facilitated diffusion of a potassium ion through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel.
name:peroxidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a donor + a peroxide = an oxidized donor + 2 H2O.
name:protein-lysine-acetyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: acetyl-CoA + lysine in peptide = CoA + N-acetyl-lysine-peptide. The acetyl group is transferred to the nitrogen atom at position 6 of the lysine residue in the protein.
name:phosphotransferase activity, phosphate group as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus-containing group from one compound (donor) to a phosphate group (acceptor).
name:cytokine receptor activity , definition:Combining with a cytokine and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity.
name:enzyme binding , definition:Binding to an enzyme, a protein with catalytic activity.
name:serine-type endopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine).
name:hydrolase activity, acting on acid anhydrides, in phosphorus-containing anhydrides , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride which contains phosphorus.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:tRNA-specific ribonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in tRNA molecules.
name:phosphoric ester hydrolase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: RPO-R' + H2O = RPOOH + R'H. This reaction is the hydrolysis of any phosphoric ester bond, any ester formed from orthophosphoric acid, O=P(OH)3.
name:transferase activity, transferring sulphur-containing groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a sulfur-containing group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:cytoskeletal protein binding , definition:Binding to a protein component of a cytoskeleton (actin, microtubule, or intermediate filament cytoskeleton).
name:isomerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule. Isomerase is the systematic name for any enzyme of EC class 5.
name:ubiquitin-like protein binding , definition:Binding to a small conjugating protein such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin-like protein.
name:carbon-carbon lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of C-C bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation, or conversely adding a group to a double bond.
name:carbohydrate derivative binding , definition:Binding to a carbohydrate derivative.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:active monoatomic ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other up the solute's concentration gradient. This is carried out by binding the solute and undergoing a series of conformational changes. Transport works equally well in either direction.
name:double-stranded RNA binding , definition:Binding to double-stranded RNA.
name:DNA binding , definition:Any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non-covalently with DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
name:signaling receptor activator activity , definition:The function of interacting (directly or indirectly) with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased.
name:GTPase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a GTPase.
name:damaged DNA binding , definition:Binding to damaged DNA.
name:NADH dehydrogenase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: NADH + H+ + acceptor = NAD+ + reduced acceptor.
name:phosphotransferase activity, alcohol group as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus-containing group from one compound (donor) to an alcohol group (acceptor).
name:ubiquitin-like protein ligase binding , definition:Binding to a ubiquitin-like protein ligase, such as ubiquitin-ligase.
name:tetrapyrrole binding , definition:Binding to a tetrapyrrole, a compound containing four pyrrole nuclei variously substituted and linked to each other through carbons at the alpha position.
name:exo-alpha-sialidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of alpha-(2->3)-, alpha-(2->6)-, alpha-(2->8)-glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic residues in oligosaccharides, glycoproteins, glycolipids, colominic acid and synthetic substrates.
name:iron ion binding , definition:Binding to an iron (Fe) ion.
name:actin binding , definition:Binding to monomeric or multimeric forms of actin, including actin filaments.
name:heat shock protein binding , definition:Binding to a heat shock protein, a protein synthesized or activated in response to heat shock.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on a heme group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:tRNA binding , definition:Binding to a transfer RNA.
name:hormone receptor binding , definition:Binding to a receptor for a hormone.
name:RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate + RNA(n) = diphosphate + RNA(n+1); uses an RNA template, i.e. the catalysis of RNA-template-directed extension of the 3'-end of an RNA strand by one nucleotide at a time.
name:microtubule motor activity , definition:A motor activity that generates movement along a microtubule, driven by ATP hydrolysis.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in linear amides , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non-peptide carbon-nitrogen bond in a linear amide.
name:phosphatase binding , definition:Binding to a phosphatase.
name:transferase activity, transferring one-carbon groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a one-carbon group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:catalytic activity, acting on a rRNA , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify a ribosomal RNA.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-NH group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-NH group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:immune receptor activity , definition:Receiving a signal and transmitting it in a cell to initiate an immune response.
name:ubiquitin-like protein peptidase activity , definition:An isopeptidase activity that cleaves ubiquitin or ubiquitin-like proteins (ULP; e.g. ATG8, ISG15, NEDD8, SUMO) from target proteins.
name:neurotransmitter receptor activity , definition:Combining with a neurotransmitter and transmitting the signal to initiate a change in cell activity.
name:protein kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein, usually according to the reaction: a protein + ATP = a phosphoprotein + ADP.
name:FAD binding , definition:Binding to the oxidized form, FAD, of flavin-adenine dinucleotide, the coenzyme or the prosthetic group of various flavoprotein oxidoreductase enzymes.
name:ubiquitin-like protein ligase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin-like protein (ULP) to a substrate protein via the reaction X-ULP + S = X + S-ULP, where X is either an E2 or E3 enzyme, the X-ULP linkage is a thioester bond, and the S-ULP linkage is an isopeptide bond between the C-terminal glycine of ULP and the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues in the substrate.
name:protein tyrosine phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: protein tyrosine phosphate + H2O = protein tyrosine + phosphate.
name:cytochrome-c oxidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: 4 ferrocytochrome c + O2 + 4 H+ = 4 ferricytochrome c + 2 H2O.
name:hydro-lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon-oxygen bond by elimination of water.
name:proton-transporting ATP synthase activity, rotational mechanism , definition:Enables the synthesis of ATP from ADP and phosphate by the transfer of protons from one side of a membrane to the other by a rotational mechanism driven by a gradient according to the reaction: ADP + H2O + phosphate + H+(in) -> ATP + H+(out).
name:protein phosphatase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a protein phosphatase.
name:endopeptidase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a peptidase, any enzyme that hydrolyzes nonterminal peptide bonds in polypeptides.
name:growth factor activity , definition:The function that stimulates a cell to grow or proliferate. Most growth factors have other actions besides the induction of cell growth or proliferation.
name:ion channel regulator activity , definition:Modulates the activity of a channel via direct interaction with it. A channel catalyzes energy-independent facilitated diffusion, mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel.
name:metal cluster binding , definition:Binding to a cluster of atoms including both metal ions and nonmetal atoms, usually sulfur and oxygen. Examples include iron-sulfur clusters and nickel-iron-sulfur clusters.
name:transferase activity, transferring phosphorus-containing groups , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus-containing group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a serine-type endopeptidase.
name:UDP-glycosyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from a UDP-sugar to a small hydrophobic molecule.
name:2 iron, 2 sulfur cluster binding , definition:Binding to a 2 iron, 2 sulfur (2Fe-2S) cluster; this cluster consists of two iron atoms, with two inorganic sulfur atoms found between the irons and acting as bridging ligands.
name:single-stranded RNA binding , definition:Binding to single-stranded RNA.
name:rRNA N-glycosylase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of the N-glycosylic bond at A-4324 in 28S rRNA from rat ribosomes or corresponding sites in 28S RNA from other species.
name:sequence-specific DNA binding , definition:Binding to DNA of a specific nucleotide composition, e.g. GC-rich DNA binding, or with a specific sequence motif or type of DNA e.g. promotor binding or rDNA binding.
name:channel activity , definition:Enables the energy-independent facilitated diffusion of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel. Stereospecificity is not exhibited but this transport may be specific for a particular molecular species or class of molecules.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-NH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-NH group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces NAD or NADP.
name:hydrolase activity, hydrolyzing N-glycosyl compounds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any N-glycosyl bond.
name:lysine N-methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to the epsilon-amino group of a lysine residue.
name:ATPase-coupled transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Primary active transporter of a solute across a membrane, via the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + phosphate, to directly drive the transport of a substance across a membrane. The transport protein may be transiently phosphorylated (P-type transporters), or not (ABC-type transporters and other families of transporters). Primary active transport occurs up the solute's concentration gradient and is driven by a primary energy source.
name:sulfurtransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of sulfur atoms from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:catalytic activity, acting on a tRNA , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify a tRNA.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amidines , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non-peptide carbon-nitrogen bond in a cyclic amidine, a compound of the form R-C(=NH)-NH2.
name:beta-lactamase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a beta-lactam + H2O = a substituted beta-amino acid.
name:dioxygenase activity , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which both atoms of oxygen from one molecule of O2 are incorporated into the (reduced) product(s) of the reaction. The two atoms of oxygen may be distributed between two different products.
name:aldo-keto reductase (NADPH) activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: an alcohol + NADP+ = an aldehyde or a ketone + NADPH + H+.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from one donor, and molecular oxygen is incorporated into a donor.
name:carbon-nitrogen lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the release of ammonia or one of its derivatives, with the formation of a double bond or ring. Enzymes with this activity may catalyze the actual elimination of the ammonia, amine or amide, e.g. CH-CH(-NH-R) = C=CH- + NH2-R. Others, however, catalyze elimination of another component, e.g. water, which is followed by spontaneous reactions that lead to breakage of the C-N bond, e.g. L-serine ammonia-lyase (EC:4.3.1.17), so that the overall reaction is C(-OH)-CH(-NH2) = CH2-CO- + NH3, i.e. an elimination with rearrangement. The sub-subclasses of EC:4.3 are the ammonia-lyases (EC:4.3.1), lyases acting on amides, amidines, etc. (EC:4.3.2), the amine-lyases (EC:4.3.3), and other carbon-nitrogen lyases (EC:4.3.99).
name:purine nucleoside binding , definition:Binding to a purine nucleoside, a compound consisting of a purine base linked either to ribose or deoxyribose.
name:protein-disulfide reductase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a protein with reduced sulfide groups = a protein with oxidized disulfide bonds.
name:metalloendopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which water acts as a nucleophile, one or two metal ions hold the water molecule in place, and charged amino acid side chains are ligands for the metal ions.
name:ATPase-coupled ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other, driven by the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + phosphate.
name:vitamin B6 binding , definition:Binding to a vitamin B6 compound: pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, pyridoxine, or the active form, pyridoxal phosphate.
name:chromatin binding , definition:Binding to chromatin, the network of fibers of DNA, protein, and sometimes RNA, that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase.
name:prenyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a prenyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on CH or CH2 groups , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:ligase activity, forming carbon-oxygen bonds , definition:Catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon-oxygen bond, with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in ATP or a similar triphosphate.
name:phospholipid binding , definition:Binding to a phospholipid, a class of lipids containing phosphoric acid as a mono- or diester.
name:amino acid binding , definition:Binding to an amino acid, organic acids containing one or more amino substituents.
name:monoatomic cation transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of cation from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:ligand-gated channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:transcription regulatory region nucleic acid binding , definition:Binding to a nucleic acid region that regulates a nucleic acid-based process. Such processes include transcription, DNA replication, and DNA repair.
name:triose-phosphate isomerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: D-glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate = dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
name:voltage-gated channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded.
name:transmitter-gated channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:hormone activity , definition:The action characteristic of a hormone, any substance formed in very small amounts in one specialized organ or group of cells and carried (sometimes in the bloodstream) to another organ or group of cells in the same organism, upon which it has a specific regulatory action. The term was originally applied to agents with a stimulatory physiological action in vertebrate animals (as opposed to a chalone, which has a depressant action). Usage is now extended to regulatory compounds in lower animals and plants, and to synthetic substances having comparable effects; all bind receptors and trigger some biological process.
name:nucleoside monophosphate kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a ribonucleoside 5'-phosphate + ATP = a ribonucleoside 5'-diphosphate + ADP.
name:copper ion binding , definition:Binding to a copper (Cu) ion.
name:protein-lysine N-methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to the epsilon-amino group of a lysine residue in a protein substrate.
name:ubiquitin protein ligase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of ubiquitin to a substrate protein via the reaction X-ubiquitin + S = X + S-ubiquitin, where X is either an E2 or E3 enzyme, the X-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond, and the S-ubiquitin linkage is an amide bond: an isopeptide bond between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and the epsilon-amino group of lysine residues in the substrate or, in the linear extension of ubiquitin chains, a peptide bond the between the C-terminal glycine and N-terminal methionine of ubiquitin residues.
name:cis-trans isomerase activity , definition:Catalysis of a reaction that interconverts cis and trans isomers. Atoms or groups are termed cis or trans to one another when they lie respectively on the same or on opposite sides of a reference plane identifiable as common among stereoisomers.
name:purine ribonucleotide binding , definition:Binding to a purine ribonucleotide, any compound consisting of a purine ribonucleoside that is esterified with (ortho)phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety.
name:inorganic molecular entity transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane. An inorganic molecular entity is a molecular entity that contains no carbon.
name:adenyl nucleotide binding , definition:Binding to an adenyl nucleotide, an adenosine esterified with (ortho)phosphate.
name:serine-type exopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the N- or C-terminus of a polypeptide chain by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine).
name:monooxygenase activity , definition:Catalysis of the incorporation of one atom from molecular oxygen into a compound and the reduction of the other atom of oxygen to water.
name:hexosyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a hexosyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds, in cyclic amides , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non-peptide carbon-nitrogen bond in a cyclic amide.
name:nucleoside-triphosphatase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of an NTPase.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on carbon-nitrogen (but not peptide) bonds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any carbon-nitrogen bond, C-N, with the exception of peptide bonds.
name:peptidase inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a peptidase, any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis peptide bonds.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on a sulfur group of donors, NAD(P) as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a sulfur-containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces NAD or NADP.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on other nitrogenous compounds as donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a nitrogenous group, excluding NH and NH2 groups, acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:NADH:ubiquinone reductase (non-electrogenic) activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: NADH + H+ + a quinone = NAD+ + a quinol.
name:metallopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds by a mechanism in which water acts as a nucleophile, one or two metal ions hold the water molecule in place, and charged amino acid side chains are ligands for the metal ions.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:ligand-gated monoatomic ion channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific ligand has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:hydrolase activity, acting on ester bonds , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond.
name:porin activity , definition:Enables the transfer of substances, sized less than 1000 Da, from one side of a membrane to the other. The transmembrane portions of porins consist exclusively of beta-strands which form a beta-barrel. They are found in the outer membranes of Gram-negative bacteria, mitochondria, plastids and possibly acid-fast Gram-positive bacteria.
name:carbon-oxygen lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the breakage of a carbon-oxygen bond.
name:toxin activity , definition:Interacting selectively with one or more biological molecules in another (target) organism, initiating pathogenesis (leading to an abnormal, generally detrimental state) in the target organism. The activity should refer to an evolved function of the active gene product, i.e. one that was selected for. Examples include the activity of botulinum toxin, and snake venom.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on peroxide as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which the peroxide group acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:immunoglobulin binding , definition:Binding to an immunoglobulin.
name:ribonucleoside binding , definition:Binding to a ribonucleoside, a compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine nitrogenous base linked to ribose.
name:protein serine/threonine kinase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reactions: ATP + protein serine = ADP + protein serine phosphate, and ATP + protein threonine = ADP + protein threonine phosphate.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on metal ions , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered.
name:channel inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents, or reduces the activity of a channel.
name:translation initiation factor activity , definition:Functions in the initiation of ribosome-mediated translation of mRNA into a polypeptide.
name:ion channel inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents, or reduces the activity of an ion channel.
name:transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine kinase activity , definition:Combining with a signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity by catalysis of the reaction: ATP + a protein-L-tyrosine = ADP + a protein-L-tyrosine phosphate.
name:DNA N-glycosylase activity , definition:Catalysis of the removal of damaged bases by cleaving the N-C1' glycosidic bond between the target damaged DNA base and the deoxyribose sugar. The reaction releases a free base and leaves an apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) site.
name:heparin binding , definition:Binding to heparin, a member of a group of glycosaminoglycans found mainly as an intracellular component of mast cells and which consist predominantly of alternating alpha-(1->4)-linked D-galactose and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine-6-sulfate residues.
name:aspartic-type peptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which a water molecule bound by the side chains of aspartic residues at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:iron-sulfur cluster binding , definition:Binding to an iron-sulfur cluster, a combination of iron and sulfur atoms.
name:RNA polymerase II transcription regulatory region sequence-specific DNA binding , definition:Binding to a specific sequence of DNA that is part of a regulatory region that controls the transcription of a gene or cistron by RNA polymerase II.
name:DNA-binding transcription factor binding , definition:Binding to a DNA-binding transcription factor, a protein that interacts with a specific DNA sequence (sometimes referred to as a motif) within the regulatory region of a gene to modulate transcription.
name:deacetylase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group from a substrate molecule.
name:gated channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a solute by a channel that opens in response to a specific stimulus.
name:FMN binding , definition:Binding to flavin mono nucleotide. Flavin mono nucleotide (FMN) is the coenzyme or the prosthetic group of various flavoprotein oxidoreductase enzymes.
name:transcription coactivator activity , definition:A transcription coregulator activity that activates or increases the transcription of specific gene sets via binding to a DNA-binding transcription factor at a specific genomic locus, either on its own or as part of a complex. Coactivators often act by altering chromatin structure and modifications. For example, one class of transcription coactivators modifies chromatin structure through covalent modification of histones. A second class remodels the conformation of chromatin in an ATP-dependent fashion. A third class modulates interactions of DNA-bound DNA-binding transcription factors with other transcription coregulators. A fourth class of coactivator activity is the bridging of a DNA-binding transcription factor to the general (basal) transcription machinery. The Mediator complex, which bridges sequence-specific DNA binding transcription factors and RNA polymerase, is also a transcription coactivator.
name:identical protein binding , definition:Binding to an identical protein or proteins.
name:ligase activity , definition:Catalysis of the joining of two molecules, or two groups within a single molecule, using the energy from the hydrolysis of ATP, a similar triphosphate, or a pH gradient.
name:transmembrane receptor protein kinase activity , definition:Combining with a signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity by catalysis of the reaction: a protein + ATP = a phosphoprotein + ADP.
name:ATPase-coupled monoatomic cation transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O + cation(out) = ADP + phosphate + cation(in).
name:adenylyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an adenylyl group to an acceptor.
name:protein dimerization activity , definition:The formation of a protein dimer, a macromolecular structure consists of two noncovalently associated identical or nonidentical subunits.
name:protein heterodimerization activity , definition:Binding to a nonidentical protein to form a heterodimer.
name:zinc ion binding , definition:Binding to a zinc ion (Zn).
name:NAD binding , definition:Binding to nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, a coenzyme involved in many redox and biosynthetic reactions; binding may be to either the oxidized form, NAD+, or the reduced form, NADH.
name:endopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain.
name:monoatomic ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:thiolester hydrolase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: RCO-SR' + H2O = RCOOH + HSR'. This reaction is the hydrolysis of a thiolester bond, an ester formed from a carboxylic acid and a thiol (i.e., RCO-SR'), such as that found in acetyl-coenzyme A.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:ATP-dependent activity, acting on DNA , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify DNA, driven by ATP hydrolysis.
name:glucosyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a glucosyl group to an acceptor molecule, typically another carbohydrate or a lipid.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-CH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-CH group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces NAD or NADP.
name:hexosaminidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of hexosamine or N-acetylhexosamine residues (e.g. N-acetylglucosamine) residues from gangliosides or other glycoside oligosaccharides.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:exonuclease activity, active with either ribo- or deoxyribonucleic acids and producing 5'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters.
name:O-methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the oxygen atom of an acceptor molecule.
name:structural constituent of ribosome , definition:The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of the ribosome.
name:monocarboxylic acid binding , definition:Binding to a monocarboxylic acid, any organic acid containing one carboxyl (COOH) group or anion (COO-).
name:magnesium ion binding , definition:Binding to a magnesium (Mg) ion.
name:monoatomic cation channel activity , definition:Enables the energy-independent facilitated diffusion of a monoatomic cation through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel.
name:RNA endonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks.
name:ATP hydrolysis activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: ATP + H2O = ADP + H+ phosphate. ATP hydrolysis is used in some reactions as an energy source, for example to catalyze a reaction or drive transport against a concentration gradient.
name:O-acyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule.
name:nucleotidyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:endodeoxyribonuclease activity, producing 5'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5'-phosphomonoesters.
name:tRNA methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from a donor to a nucleoside residue in a tRNA molecule.
name:signaling receptor binding , definition:Binding to one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule, a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone, neurotransmitter, drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function.
name:structural constituent of nuclear pore , definition:The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of the nuclear pore complex, a protein-lined channel in the nuclear envelope that allows the transfer of macromolecules.
name:alpha-sialidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of alpha-glycosidic linkages in oligo- or poly(sialic) acids.
name:obsolete racemase activity, acting on amino acids and derivatives , definition:OBSOLETE. Catalysis of the interconversion of the two enantiomers of a chiral amino acid or amino acid derivative.
name:carboxy-lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the nonhydrolytic addition or removal of a carboxyl group to or from a compound.
name:cytoskeletal motor activity , definition:Generation of force resulting in movement, for example along a microfilament or microtubule, or in torque resulting in membrane scission or rotation of a flagellum. The energy required is obtained either from the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate or by an electrochemical proton gradient (proton-motive force).
name:transcription cis-regulatory region binding , definition:Binding to a specific sequence of DNA that is part of a regulatory region that controls transcription of that section of the DNA. The transcribed region might be described as a gene, cistron, or operon.
name:inorganic cation transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of inorganic cations from one side of a membrane to the other. Inorganic cations are atoms or small molecules with a positive charge that do not contain carbon in covalent linkage.
name:NADP binding , definition:Binding to nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate, a coenzyme involved in many redox and biosynthetic reactions; binding may be to either the oxidized form, NADP+, or the reduced form, NADPH.
name:phosphatidylinositol binding , definition:Binding to an inositol-containing glycerophospholipid, i.e. phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and its phosphorylated derivatives.
name:secondary active transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other, up its concentration gradient. The transporter binds the solute and undergoes a series of conformational changes. Transport works equally well in either direction and is driven by a chemiosmotic source of energy, not direct ATP coupling. Secondary active transporters include symporters and antiporters.
name:DNA-directed 5'-3' RNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate + RNA(n) = diphosphate + RNA(n+1). Utilizes a DNA template, i.e. the catalysis of DNA-template-directed extension of the 3'-end of an RNA strand by one nucleotide at a time. Can initiate a chain 'de novo'.
name:RNA helicase activity , definition:Unwinding of an RNA helix, driven by ATP hydrolysis.
name:racemase and epimerase activity , definition:Catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a molecule.
name:RNA methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from a donor to a nucleoside residue in an RNA molecule.
name:ferric iron binding , definition:Binding to a ferric iron ion, Fe(III).
name:catalytic activity, acting on RNA , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify RNA, driven by ATP hydrolysis.
name:calmodulin binding , definition:Binding to calmodulin, a calcium-binding protein with many roles, both in the calcium-bound and calcium-free states.
name:phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a phosphoric monoester, releasing a phosphate.
name:peptidase regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a peptidase, any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis peptide bonds.
name:calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of calcium (Ca) ions from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:transporter activity , definition:Enables the directed movement of substances (such as macromolecules, small molecules, ions) into, out of or within a cell, accross or in between cells.
name:aldehyde-lyase activity , definition:Catalysis of the cleavage of a C-C bond in a molecule containing a hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group to form two smaller molecules, each being an aldehyde or a ketone.
name:peptide transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a peptide from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:nucleoside triphosphate diphosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside triphosphate + H2O = a nucleotide + H+ + diphosphate.
name:intramolecular transferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a functional group from one position to another within a single molecule.
name:NAD+ binding , definition:Binding to the oxidized form, NAD, of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, a coenzyme involved in many redox and biosynthetic reactions.
name:ribonucleoprotein complex binding , definition:Binding to a complex of RNA and protein.
name:lipase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a lipid.
name:receptor ligand activity , definition:The activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor. Ligands may be produced by the same cell that expresses the receptor. Ligands may also be expressed at the plasma membrane of an adjacent cell (e.g. Notch ligands) or be secreted and diffuse extracellularly from their point of origin to the receiving cell (e.g. interleukins).
name:nucleoside binding , definition:Binding to a nucleoside, a compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine nitrogenous base linked either to ribose or deoxyribose.
name:RNA exonuclease activity, producing 5'-phosphomonoesters , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters.
name:steroid binding , definition:Binding to a steroid, any of a large group of substances that have in common a ring system based on 1,2-cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene.
name:ribonucleoside triphosphate phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a ribonucleoside triphosphate + H2O = a ribonucleoside diphosphate + H+ + phosphate.
name:signaling receptor regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a receptor.
name:transmitter-gated monoatomic ion channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when a specific neurotransmitter has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:endopeptidase inhibitor activity , definition:Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of an endopeptidase.
name:phospholipase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a glycerophospholipid.
name:heme binding , definition:Binding to a heme, a compound composed of iron complexed in a porphyrin (tetrapyrrole) ring.
name:glutamate receptor activity , definition:Combining with glutamate and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity.
name:monoatomic anion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:amide binding , definition:Binding to an amide, any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group.
name:voltage-gated monoatomic ion channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a voltage-gated channel. An ion is an atom or group of atoms carrying an electric charge by virtue of having gained or lost one or more electrons. A voltage-gated channel is a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded.
name:intramolecular oxidoreductase activity , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which the hydrogen donor and acceptor are the same molecule, and no oxidized product appears.
name:quinone binding , definition:Binding to a quinone, any member of a class of diketones derivable from aromatic compounds by conversion of two CH groups into CO groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds.
name:protein-containing complex binding , definition:Binding to a macromolecular complex.
name:peptide binding , definition:Binding to a peptide, an organic compound comprising two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds.
name:exonuclease activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end.
name:pyridoxal phosphate binding , definition:Binding to pyridoxal 5' phosphate, 3-hydroxy-5-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl4-pyridine carboxaldehyde 5' phosphate, the biologically active form of vitamin B6.
name:oligosaccharide binding , definition:Binding to an oligosaccharide, a molecule with between two and (about) 20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages.
name:glycosyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:translation elongation factor activity , definition:Functions in chain elongation during polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome.
name:DNA topoisomerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transient cleavage and passage of individual DNA strands or double helices through one another, resulting a topological transformation in double-stranded DNA.
name:manganese ion binding , definition:Binding to a manganese ion (Mn).
name:macromolecule transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a macromolecule from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-CH group of donors , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-CH group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor.
name:RNA binding , definition:Binding to an RNA molecule or a portion thereof.
name:kinase regulator activity , definition:Modulates the activity of a kinase, an enzyme which catalyzes of the transfer of a phosphate group, usually from ATP, to a substrate molecule.
name:G protein-coupled receptor activity , definition:Combining with an extracellular signal and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein; promotes the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric G-protein complex.
name:RNA polymerase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate + RNA(n) = diphosphate + RNA(n+1); the synthesis of RNA from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template.
name:Name not found , definition:Definition not found
name:pentosyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a pentosyl group from one compound (donor) to another (acceptor).
name:lysozyme activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of the beta-(1->4) linkages between N-acetylmuramic acid and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine residues in a peptidoglycan.
name:NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: NADH + ubiquinone + 5 H+(in) = NAD+ + ubiquinol + 4 H+(out).
name:rRNA methyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from S-adenosyl-L-methionine to a nucleoside residue in an rRNA molecule.
name:voltage-gated monoatomic cation channel activity , definition:Enables the transmembrane transfer of a cation by a voltage-gated channel. A cation is a positively charged ion. A voltage-gated channel is a channel whose open state is dependent on the voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded.
name:phosphoprotein phosphatase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein + H2O = a protein + phosphate. Together with protein kinases, these enzymes control the state of phosphorylation of cellular proteins and thereby provide an important mechanism for regulating cellular activity.
name:disulfide oxidoreductase activity , definition:Catalysis of the reaction: substrate with reduced sulfide groups = substrate with oxidized disulfide bonds.
name:catalytic activity, acting on a protein , definition:Catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein.
name:channel regulator activity , definition:Binds to and modulates the activity of a channel. A channel catalyzes energy-independent facilitated diffusion, mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel.
name:metal ion transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other.
name:immunoglobulin receptor binding , definition:Binding to one or more specific sites on an immunoglobulin receptor molecule.
name:GTPase binding , definition:Binding to a GTPase, any enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of GTP.
name:primary active transmembrane transporter activity , definition:Enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other, up the solute's concentration gradient, by binding the solute and undergoing a series of conformational changes. Transport works equally well in either direction and is powered by a primary energy source. Primary energy sources known to be coupled to transport are chemical such as ATP hydrolysis, redox energy and photon energy.
name:aspartic-type endopeptidase activity , definition:Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which a water molecule bound by the side chains of aspartic residues at the active center acts as a nucleophile.
name:acetyltransferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an acceptor molecule.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the CH-OH group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which a CH-OH group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces NAD+ or NADP.
name:ubiquitin-protein transferase activity , definition:Catalysis of the transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to another via the reaction X-Ub + Y = Y-Ub + X, where both X-Ub and Y-Ub are covalent linkages.
name:glutamate-gated receptor activity , definition:Catalysis of the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a channel that opens when glutamate has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts.
name:oxidoreductase activity, acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors, NAD or NADP as acceptor , definition:Catalysis of an oxidation-reduction (redox) reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone (oxo) group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces NAD or NADP.
name:mRNA binding , definition:Binding to messenger RNA (mRNA), an intermediate molecule between DNA and protein. mRNA includes UTR and coding sequences, but does not contain introns.
name:ribonucleotide binding , definition:Binding to a ribonucleotide, any compound consisting of a ribonucleoside that is esterified with (ortho)phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety.
